LENDER NAME: Darlington Building Society
PRODUCT: Residential

================================================================================
DARLINGTON BUILDING SOCIETY - RESIDENTIAL CRITERIA
================================================================================

SUMMARY
----------------------------------------
Total Sections: 55
Total Tables: 4
Content Length: 59,718 characters

TABLE OF CONTENTS
----------------------------------------
 1. Acceptable Deposits
 2. Affordable Housing
 3. Age
 4. Agricultural Ties
 5. Applicants (Number)
 6. Contractors
 7. Contractors – Umbrella Companies
 8. Credit History
 9. Debt Consolidation
10. EEA Nationals
11. Employment types
12. Ex Local Authority Properties
13. Expat (British Nationals)
14. Expat Residential
15. First Homes Scheme
16. First Time Buyers
17. Flats
18. Foreign Currency
19. Geographic Area
20. Help to Build
21. Help to Buy Remortgage
22. Income – Employed/Self-Employed
23. Income – Other
24. Interest Only
25. Interest Only Repayment Strategies
26. Joint Borrower Sole Proprietor
27. Locum/Bank work
28. LTI
29. LTVs & Maximum Loan Amounts
30. Maintenance Income
31. Maternity Pay
32. Mortgage Term
33. New Build
34. Offers
35. Probationary Period
36. Professionals
37. Relative of a customer
38. Repayment Types
39. Residency
40. Retirement
41. Right to Buy
42. Second Residential
43. Self Employed
44. Shared Ownership
45. Sitting Tenant
46. Specialist
47. Tenure – Common Hold
48. Tenure – Freehold House
49. Tenure – Leasehold Flats
50. Tenure – Leasehold House
51. Tenure – Outright or Absolute
52. Tenure – Shared Ownership
53. Tenure – Tyneside Flats
54. Visas
55. Warranty

CRITERIA SECTIONS
================================================================================

SECTION: ACCEPTABLE DEPOSITS
------------------------------------------------------------
All deposits should be in sterling and in a UK bank account for at least 1mth prior to application • Savings and Investments. • Inheritance (that has already been received by the applicant or funds already held by the solicitor). • Builder’s deposit (New Build only and not available for shared ownership mortgages) – subject to confirmation by the valuer. • Builder’s incentives (New Build Only) – If incentives are greater than 5% of the purchase price/ valuation (whichever is lower), must be deducted from the purchase price/ valuation when calculating the maximum amount DBS will lend. This will be subject to confirmation by the valuer. • For applications on the Own New Scheme, the payment to DBS is not included in the 5% acceptable level of Builder’s incentives. • Gifted deposit (blood relative, step-parent, child, spouse, guardian or partner). Evidence will be required of the deposit in the donor’s UK bank account at least 1mth prior to application and the donor must be living in the UK. Where a person(s) gifting the deposit intends on residing in the property then they must seek Independent Legal Advise (ILA) prior to any mortgage offer. Not acceptable on Right to Buy applications. • Equity from sale of another property owned. • Deposit raised from another property owned. • For BTL applications, gift may only be from Landlord or family (as defined above). • Deposits coming from abroad can be considered on an individual basis. The deposit funds must be paid into the applicants UK bank and be evidenced for at least 28 days and we must be able to evidence a trail of the funds from the overseas account. * Applicant must provide a minimum deposit of 5% from their own resources (excluding Right to Buy and gifted deposit) and will be subject to MIG approval in this instance. Where personal contributions are less than 5% then LTV will be restricted to 80%.

Affordable Housing The Society will consider applications for people wanting to buy their homes under ‘Affordable housing’ or discounted purchase schemes. The valuation must reflect the full value of the property and confirmation of the purchase price must be provided. The Society will lend 95% of the total purchase price, LTV will be limited to 80%. The applicant must provide a minimum deposit of 5% from our list of acceptable deposits. All covenants and Section 106 to be agreed by an underwriter, and relevant documentation must be provided.

SECTION: AFFORDABLE HOUSING
------------------------------------------------------------
The Society will consider applications for people wanting to buy their homes under ‘Affordable housing’ or discounted purchase schemes. The valuation must reflect the full value of the property and confirmation of the purchase price must be provided. The Society will lend 95% of the total purchase price, LTV will be limited to 80%. The applicant must provide a minimum deposit of 5% from our list of acceptable deposits. All covenants and Section 106 to be agreed by an underwriter, and relevant documentation must be provided.

Age Minimum age – Residential The minimum age at application for all applicants is 18 years old. Minimum age – BTL Minimum age of all applicants at application must be at least 21 years old. Minimum age – Joint borrower sole proprietor Minimum age to be added as a supporting applicant is 25 years old. Minimum age – Expat (Residential and BTL), Holiday Let and Shared Ownership Minimum age at application must be at least 21 years old. Maximum age No maximum age for applicants on a repayment mortgage – please refer to retirement policy section. No maximum age for BTL applications – even when on an Interest Only basis Maximum age – Interest only mortgage Maximum age for applicants on an Interest Only mortgage is 86 years old. There is no maximum age for BTL mortgages on an Interest Only basis

SECTION: AGE
------------------------------------------------------------
Minimum age – Residential The minimum age at application for all applicants is 18 years old. Minimum age – BTL Minimum age of all applicants at application must be at least 21 years old. Minimum age – Joint borrower sole proprietor Minimum age to be added as a supporting applicant is 25 years old. Minimum age – Expat (Residential and BTL), Holiday Let and Shared Ownership Minimum age at application must be at least 21 years old. Maximum age No maximum age for applicants on a repayment mortgage – please refer to retirement policy section. No maximum age for BTL applications – even when on an Interest Only basis Maximum age – Interest only mortgage Maximum age for applicants on an Interest Only mortgage is 86 years old. There is no maximum age for BTL mortgages on an Interest Only basis

Agricultural Ties Properties with Agricultural Tie’s can be considered up to a maximum of 80% LTV.

SECTION: AGRICULTURAL TIES
------------------------------------------------------------
Properties with Agricultural Tie’s can be considered up to a maximum of 80% LTV.

Applicants (Number) The maximum number of applicants per application is 4.

SECTION: APPLICANTS (NUMBER)
------------------------------------------------------------
The maximum number of applicants per application is 4.

Contractors DBS accept contract workers on the following basis: • Day rate x number of days x 46 weeks (Day rate and number of days worked to be taken directly from contract). CIS sub contactors are classed as Self-Employed and we should follow the Self Employed criteria for these applicants.

SECTION: CONTRACTORS
------------------------------------------------------------
DBS accept contract workers on the following basis: • Day rate x number of days x 46 weeks (Day rate and number of days worked to be taken directly from contract). CIS sub contactors are classed as Self-Employed and we should follow the Self Employed criteria for these applicants.

Contractors – Umbrella Companies Where a contractor is paid via an umbrella, the last 2 months’ payslips are required to deduct any statutory employer costs (including employer National Insurance contributions) from the gross pay before multiplying by 46 weeks.

SECTION: CONTRACTORS – UMBRELLA COMPANIES
------------------------------------------------------------
Where a contractor is paid via an umbrella, the last 2 months’ payslips are required to deduct any statutory employer costs (including employer National Insurance contributions) from the gross pay before multiplying by 46 weeks.

Credit History Standard LTV Up to 95% FTBs Yes Max Loan Amount Refer to £1m (subject to LTV restrictions) Arrangements to Pay Arrangements to pay which have been repaid over 6 months prior to application – subject to explanation. Missed Payments – Consumer Credit (Excl: Mobile phones, Mail Orders & Utilities) No more than 1 in the last 12 months. Missed Payment – Loans None in the last 3 years. Mortgage / Rent Arrears None in the last 3 years. Satisfied Payday Loans None in the last 3 years. Satisfied Defaults on Credit Commitments (Satisfied prior to issuing mortgage offer) Up to £500 registered over 3 years ago and satisfied prior to application. Satisfied CCJ’s Up to £500 but none in the last 3 years and satisfied for at least 3 years. Payment/Debt Management Plans (Satisfactory conductor discharge) None in the last 3 years and satisfied for at least 3 years. Satisfied IVA / Bankruptcy / Previous Repossession (Max 70% LTV) Satisfied over 6 years ago.

SECTION: CREDIT HISTORY
------------------------------------------------------------
Standard LTV Up to 95% FTBs Yes Max Loan Amount Refer to £1m (subject to LTV restrictions) Arrangements to Pay Arrangements to pay which have been repaid over 6 months prior to application – subject to explanation. Missed Payments – Consumer Credit (Excl: Mobile phones, Mail Orders & Utilities) No more than 1 in the last 12 months. Missed Payment – Loans None in the last 3 years. Mortgage / Rent Arrears None in the last 3 years. Satisfied Payday Loans None in the last 3 years. Satisfied Defaults on Credit Commitments (Satisfied prior to issuing mortgage offer) Up to £500 registered over 3 years ago and satisfied prior to application. Satisfied CCJ’s Up to £500 but none in the last 3 years and satisfied for at least 3 years. Payment/Debt Management Plans (Satisfactory conductor discharge) None in the last 3 years and satisfied for at least 3 years. Satisfied IVA / Bankruptcy / Previous Repossession (Max 70% LTV) Satisfied over 6 years ago.

Debt Consolidation The Society is prepared to consider mortgage applications where there is an element of capital raising for third party debt consolidation subject to the following criteria: • In all cases details of the debts to be consolidated must be ascertained. • Maximum of 70% LTV where debt consolidation is for lifestyle debts and 80% where the debts to be repaid were used for home improvements. • The maximum amount to be consolidated should not exceed £30,000. (Does not include Help to Buy equity loan) for lifestyle debt consolidation and £50,000* for home improvement debt consolidation. • Second charges/bridging finance can be repaid but will be included in the total value of the debt consolidation unless we are able to demonstrate the loan was used to purchase the security property. *Underwriters have discretion to allow debt consolidation for home improvements over the £50,000 limit. Full rationale is required and should be marked as out of criteria. • Standard credit criteria only. • Not available for large loans of £1 million or above. • Not available for Shared Ownership mortgages. • Not available for BTL expat mortgages. • Not available for IO only mortgages have a term which is in or into retirement • Not available for Joint borrower sole proprietor mortgages. • The Society will only consider debt consolidation where the main purpose (Any element of the loan which is going from an Unsecured to Secured Basis) of the loan is for residential purposes, The Society define main purpose as at least 50% of the total borrowing.

SECTION: DEBT CONSOLIDATION
------------------------------------------------------------
The Society is prepared to consider mortgage applications where there is an element of capital raising for third party debt consolidation subject to the following criteria: • In all cases details of the debts to be consolidated must be ascertained. • Maximum of 70% LTV where debt consolidation is for lifestyle debts and 80% where the debts to be repaid were used for home improvements. • The maximum amount to be consolidated should not exceed £30,000. (Does not include Help to Buy equity loan) for lifestyle debt consolidation and £50,000* for home improvement debt consolidation. • Second charges/bridging finance can be repaid but will be included in the total value of the debt consolidation unless we are able to demonstrate the loan was used to purchase the security property. *Underwriters have discretion to allow debt consolidation for home improvements over the £50,000 limit. Full rationale is required and should be marked as out of criteria. • Standard credit criteria only. • Not available for large loans of £1 million or above. • Not available for Shared Ownership mortgages. • Not available for BTL expat mortgages. • Not available for IO only mortgages have a term which is in or into retirement • Not available for Joint borrower sole proprietor mortgages. • The Society will only consider debt consolidation where the main purpose (Any element of the loan which is going from an Unsecured to Secured Basis) of the loan is for residential purposes, The Society define main purpose as at least 50% of the total borrowing.

EEA Nationals Subject to normal affordability and other criteria in this Policy being satisfied, the Society would be willing to provide a mortgage, providing they are residents in the UK.

SECTION: EEA NATIONALS
------------------------------------------------------------
Subject to normal affordability and other criteria in this Policy being satisfied, the Society would be willing to provide a mortgage, providing they are residents in the UK.

Employment types The society will consider applications from: Full/part/term time employed. Contractors. Self employed. Directors. Some benefit income. Retired. Stipend income or Bursary*. Zero Hours Contract**. *The society will only consider Stipend and Bursary income where there is another source of income to support (Must be a minimum of 6 months in role) or a secondary customer to support the mortgage application. ** The society will only consider Zero Hours Contract where there is another source of income to support (Must be a minimum of 12 months) or a secondary customer to support the mortgage application.

SECTION: EMPLOYMENT TYPES
------------------------------------------------------------
The society will consider applications from: Full/part/term time employed. Contractors. Self employed. Directors. Some benefit income. Retired. Stipend income or Bursary*. Zero Hours Contract**. *The society will only consider Stipend and Bursary income where there is another source of income to support (Must be a minimum of 6 months in role) or a secondary customer to support the mortgage application. ** The society will only consider Zero Hours Contract where there is another source of income to support (Must be a minimum of 12 months) or a secondary customer to support the mortgage application.

Ex Local Authority Properties Minimum value of £80,000 for Ex Local authority houses. The society will accept Ex Local authority flats in London only subject to the following: Maximum of 4 stories high. Maximum 60% LTV of the open market value. Minimum value of £250,000. The Society has no appetite to lend on ex Local Authority flats outside of the London area.

SECTION: EX LOCAL AUTHORITY PROPERTIES
------------------------------------------------------------
Minimum value of £80,000 for Ex Local authority houses. The society will accept Ex Local authority flats in London only subject to the following: Maximum of 4 stories high. Maximum 60% LTV of the open market value. Minimum value of £250,000. The Society has no appetite to lend on ex Local Authority flats outside of the London area.

Expat (British Nationals) Applicants will be considered against the criteria outlined below: •Joint applications – All applicants must be British nationals (If 1 applicant is going to be residing in the property this is not considered to be an Expat mortgage and will be considered as a Foreign Currency mortgage). •For purchase or re-mortgage of a UK property. •There is no minimum time in role required however Underwriters will assess areas such as tenure in sector, any probationary periods as per probation policy along with overall case characteristics •Available for self-employed applicants subject to accountants reference and 2yrs accounts. The acceptable accountants are: Baker Tilly International BDO Crowe Horwath International Deloitte Ernst & Young Grant Thornton International HLB International KPMG International PKF International Pricewaterhouse Cooper UHY International •Minimum loan amount of £25,000 within local operating area and £50,000 outside of this •Minimum age of 21 years old. •Currency – Please refer to foreign currency policy. •Must have an active UK bank account. •Must have UK correspondence address. •Must have permanent rights to reside. •Not available for Shared Ownership applications.

SECTION: EXPAT (BRITISH NATIONALS)
------------------------------------------------------------
Applicants will be considered against the criteria outlined below: •Joint applications – All applicants must be British nationals (If 1 applicant is going to be residing in the property this is not considered to be an Expat mortgage and will be considered as a Foreign Currency mortgage). •For purchase or re-mortgage of a UK property. •There is no minimum time in role required however Underwriters will assess areas such as tenure in sector, any probationary periods as per probation policy along with overall case characteristics •Available for self-employed applicants subject to accountants reference and 2yrs accounts. The acceptable accountants are: Baker Tilly International BDO Crowe Horwath International Deloitte Ernst & Young Grant Thornton International HLB International KPMG International PKF International Pricewaterhouse Cooper UHY International •Minimum loan amount of £25,000 within local operating area and £50,000 outside of this •Minimum age of 21 years old. •Currency – Please refer to foreign currency policy. •Must have an active UK bank account. •Must have UK correspondence address. •Must have permanent rights to reside. •Not available for Shared Ownership applications.

Expat Residential Up to a maximum of 80% LTV No minimum income Contract of employment for working abroad is needed Not available for Right to Buy applications Not available for First Time Buyer applications

SECTION: EXPAT RESIDENTIAL
------------------------------------------------------------
Up to a maximum of 80% LTV No minimum income Contract of employment for working abroad is needed Not available for Right to Buy applications Not available for First Time Buyer applications

First Homes Scheme The Society can consider applications under the First Home Scheme

SECTION: FIRST HOMES SCHEME
------------------------------------------------------------
The Society can consider applications under the First Home Scheme

First Time Buyers First time buyers are defined as a person who has not previously owned a property. Up to 95% LTV is considered within the Society’s operating area. 95% LTV is considered for outside the Society’s operating area with the exclusion of London where max LTV is 80%. This is subject to product availability. Up to 95% loan to share for Shared Ownership. The Society will consider first time BTL landlords subject to BTL criteria.

SECTION: FIRST TIME BUYERS
------------------------------------------------------------
First time buyers are defined as a person who has not previously owned a property. Up to 95% LTV is considered within the Society’s operating area. 95% LTV is considered for outside the Society’s operating area with the exclusion of London where max LTV is 80%. This is subject to product availability. Up to 95% loan to share for Shared Ownership. The Society will consider first time BTL landlords subject to BTL criteria.

Flats The Society has no appetite for: • Maisonettes/ flats/ apartments above a shop or commercial premises outside of the prime central London area (refer to Glossary for definition). • HMOs • Studio flats outside of the prime central London area (definition on page 49). • Flats with shared/balcony access The Society can consider blocks of flats that are more than 4 stories high, but they must not exceed 8 stories high. Maximum 80% LTV. Where blocks of flats are more than 4 stories high, the minimum property value must be £250,000. These are only considered where the RICS guidance for cladding safety has been met and approved by the Society. The Society can consider buildings with A3 or B2 ratings on the EWS1 where there is a costed and funded remediation plan agreed with committed dates for starting and finishing all specified/required work. The Society will only accept ex-local authority flats in London. Flats above commercial premises (except fast food or alcohol sales) are only acceptable in prime central London (refer to Glossary for definition), with a minimum property value of £250,000 at a maximum of 60% LTV. Studio flats are only acceptable in prime central London (definition on page 49), with a minimum value of £500,000 at a maximum of 60% LTV. All converted flats should be referred to underwriting.

SECTION: FLATS
------------------------------------------------------------
The Society has no appetite for: • Maisonettes/ flats/ apartments above a shop or commercial premises outside of the prime central London area (refer to Glossary for definition). • HMOs • Studio flats outside of the prime central London area (definition on page 49). • Flats with shared/balcony access The Society can consider blocks of flats that are more than 4 stories high, but they must not exceed 8 stories high. Maximum 80% LTV. Where blocks of flats are more than 4 stories high, the minimum property value must be £250,000. These are only considered where the RICS guidance for cladding safety has been met and approved by the Society. The Society can consider buildings with A3 or B2 ratings on the EWS1 where there is a costed and funded remediation plan agreed with committed dates for starting and finishing all specified/required work. The Society will only accept ex-local authority flats in London. Flats above commercial premises (except fast food or alcohol sales) are only acceptable in prime central London (refer to Glossary for definition), with a minimum property value of £250,000 at a maximum of 60% LTV. Studio flats are only acceptable in prime central London (definition on page 49), with a minimum value of £500,000 at a maximum of 60% LTV. All converted flats should be referred to underwriting.

Foreign Currency The Society will accept applications from UK nationals. The following foreign currencies will be considered up to a maximum 80% LTV: •Euro •US dollar •Australian dollar •Saudi riyal •UAE dirham •Swiss franc •Singapore dollar •Qatari riyal •Norwegian krone •Danish krone •Swedish krone •Canadian dollar •New Zealand dollar •South African rand •Japanese Yen •Hong Kong Dollar No minimum income required Only 1 currency per application, multiple currencies not allowed The Society will not support applications with self-employed income from companies incorporated outside the UK – refer to Ex Pat section. Not acceptable for Right to Buy or First-Time Buyer applications.

SECTION: FOREIGN CURRENCY
------------------------------------------------------------
The Society will accept applications from UK nationals. The following foreign currencies will be considered up to a maximum 80% LTV: •Euro •US dollar •Australian dollar •Saudi riyal •UAE dirham •Swiss franc •Singapore dollar •Qatari riyal •Norwegian krone •Danish krone •Swedish krone •Canadian dollar •New Zealand dollar •South African rand •Japanese Yen •Hong Kong Dollar No minimum income required Only 1 currency per application, multiple currencies not allowed The Society will not support applications with self-employed income from companies incorporated outside the UK – refer to Ex Pat section. Not acceptable for Right to Buy or First-Time Buyer applications.

Geographic Area The Society’s current appetite is to only lend in England, Wales, and mainland Scotland. Scottish Islands of Orkney, Shetland and Skye are acceptable There is no appetite to lend in the remainder of the UK. For our local operating area please see relevant section. London The “London” area refers to any property within the M25 boundary. LTV will be restricted within the London area as follows: • Residential house purchase/re-mortgage will be limited to 80% LTV. • Residential flat purchase/re-mortgage will be limited to 80% LTV (exclusions apply – refer to Flats section). • BTL will be limited 80% LTV. LTV and a maximum loan of £500,000 (exclusions apply – refer to Flats section). The limits will not apply to Shared Ownership mortgages where there is no differentiation on LTV by geographic area. All applications outside of this should be referred to underwriting.

SECTION: GEOGRAPHIC AREA
------------------------------------------------------------
The Society’s current appetite is to only lend in England, Wales, and mainland Scotland. Scottish Islands of Orkney, Shetland and Skye are acceptable There is no appetite to lend in the remainder of the UK. For our local operating area please see relevant section. London The “London” area refers to any property within the M25 boundary. LTV will be restricted within the London area as follows: • Residential house purchase/re-mortgage will be limited to 80% LTV. • Residential flat purchase/re-mortgage will be limited to 80% LTV (exclusions apply – refer to Flats section). • BTL will be limited 80% LTV. LTV and a maximum loan of £500,000 (exclusions apply – refer to Flats section). The limits will not apply to Shared Ownership mortgages where there is no differentiation on LTV by geographic area. All applications outside of this should be referred to underwriting.

Help to Build The Society accept Help to Build mortgages submitted through BuildLoan as a self-build mortgage and are subject to: 18 years of age or over, and have a right to live in England Applicant(s) will live in the newly built home as their only home A deposit of at least 5% required Release up to 95% of the land and build costs The equity loan amount can be between 5% to 20% and must be calculated into affordability Standard credit history criteria only Not available on leasehold houses or flats or properties in London. Requirement to have outline planning permission for the land they want to build on before assessment or approval of the self-build mortgage. If an equity loan is approved, applicants will have 3 years to build their home.

SECTION: HELP TO BUILD
------------------------------------------------------------
The Society accept Help to Build mortgages submitted through BuildLoan as a self-build mortgage and are subject to: 18 years of age or over, and have a right to live in England Applicant(s) will live in the newly built home as their only home A deposit of at least 5% required Release up to 95% of the land and build costs The equity loan amount can be between 5% to 20% and must be calculated into affordability Standard credit history criteria only Not available on leasehold houses or flats or properties in London. Requirement to have outline planning permission for the land they want to build on before assessment or approval of the self-build mortgage. If an equity loan is approved, applicants will have 3 years to build their home.

Help to Buy Remortgage The Society will accept Help to Buy re-mortgages from applicants. Not applicable to properties in London or Scotland.

SECTION: HELP TO BUY REMORTGAGE
------------------------------------------------------------
The Society will accept Help to Buy re-mortgages from applicants. Not applicable to properties in London or Scotland.

Income – Employed/Self-Employed Income Type Max % Minimum evidence requirements Basic gross – guaranteed 100 2 months Overtime 100 1 year Second employment 100 6 months Applicant 3 income 100 2 months Applicant 4 income 100 2 months Bonus – guaranteed 75 2 years Bonus – non-guaranteed 50 2 years Shift allowance 100 1 year Car allowance 100 1 year Commission – regular 75 2 years Net profit 100 2 years Self-employed income (incl CIS contractors) 100 2 years Dividend for company Directors 100 2 years State pension 100 2 months Occupation pension 100 2 months Private pension 100 2 months NHS bank / locum / supply income 100 2 years’ experience in the same industry and 6 months evidence of income required with average of this period used in affordability assessment.

SECTION: INCOME – EMPLOYED/SELF-EMPLOYED
------------------------------------------------------------
Income Type Max % Minimum evidence requirements Basic gross – guaranteed 100 2 months Overtime 100 1 year Second employment 100 6 months Applicant 3 income 100 2 months Applicant 4 income 100 2 months Bonus – guaranteed 75 2 years Bonus – non-guaranteed 50 2 years Shift allowance 100 1 year Car allowance 100 1 year Commission – regular 75 2 years Net profit 100 2 years Self-employed income (incl CIS contractors) 100 2 years Dividend for company Directors 100 2 years State pension 100 2 months Occupation pension 100 2 months Private pension 100 2 months NHS bank / locum / supply income 100 2 years’ experience in the same industry and 6 months evidence of income required with average of this period used in affordability assessment.

Income – Other Income type Max % Minimum evidence requirements Universal Credit Benefits – guaranteed 50 3 months * Child Benefit 50 3 months Working Families Tax Credit 50 3 months Trust/ investment income (including savings interest/dividend) 50 1 year ** Rental income – actual 75% 2 years and most recent SA302’s/ tax year overviews Stipend income 100 6 months and refer to underwriting plus check employment types Bursary 100 6 months and refer to underwriting plus check employment types Zero-hour contract 100 1 year and check employment types Attendance allowance 50 3 months Carers allowance 50 3 months Maintenance 100 See maintenance section Other income 100 Refer to underwriting Benefits – not guaranteed for life (eg PIP, DLA) 100 6 months SIPP 4 4% of pot value – this will be assessed against the mortgage term London/Large City Allowance 100 3 months

SECTION: INCOME – OTHER
------------------------------------------------------------
Income type Max % Minimum evidence requirements Universal Credit Benefits – guaranteed 50 3 months * Child Benefit 50 3 months Working Families Tax Credit 50 3 months Trust/ investment income (including savings interest/dividend) 50 1 year ** Rental income – actual 75% 2 years and most recent SA302’s/ tax year overviews Stipend income 100 6 months and refer to underwriting plus check employment types Bursary 100 6 months and refer to underwriting plus check employment types Zero-hour contract 100 1 year and check employment types Attendance allowance 50 3 months Carers allowance 50 3 months Maintenance 100 See maintenance section Other income 100 Refer to underwriting Benefits – not guaranteed for life (eg PIP, DLA) 100 6 months SIPP 4 4% of pot value – this will be assessed against the mortgage term London/Large City Allowance 100 3 months

Interest Only • Maximum of 70% LTV for residential • Maximum of 75% LTV for BTL. • Not available for debt consolidation, Shared Ownership, Help to Buy or extra support applicants. • Available for lending in, and into retirement subject to a maximum age of 86 (term calculated at date of application). The maximum age is not applicable for BTL applications. • Where lending in and into retirement on an IO basis, the maximum loan will be based the lowest applicants income in retirement. • Lending in and into retirement on an IO basis is not available on JBSP or where any element of capital raising.

SECTION: INTEREST ONLY
------------------------------------------------------------
• Maximum of 70% LTV for residential • Maximum of 75% LTV for BTL. • Not available for debt consolidation, Shared Ownership, Help to Buy or extra support applicants. • Available for lending in, and into retirement subject to a maximum age of 86 (term calculated at date of application). The maximum age is not applicable for BTL applications. • Where lending in and into retirement on an IO basis, the maximum loan will be based the lowest applicants income in retirement. • Lending in and into retirement on an IO basis is not available on JBSP or where any element of capital raising.

Interest Only Repayment Strategies Managed Investment Plans Tax Free Pension Lump Sum Sale of Mortgaged Property (£350k equity for London properties, £250k for properties located elsewhere) Sale of other UK Property (Equity must be greater than 110% of the Interest Only element it is being used to cover) Managed Share Portfolio (Value must be greater than 110% of the Interest Only element it is being used to cover) Endowmnet Policy

SECTION: INTEREST ONLY REPAYMENT STRATEGIES
------------------------------------------------------------
Managed Investment Plans Tax Free Pension Lump Sum Sale of Mortgaged Property (£350k equity for London properties, £250k for properties located elsewhere) Sale of other UK Property (Equity must be greater than 110% of the Interest Only element it is being used to cover) Managed Share Portfolio (Value must be greater than 110% of the Interest Only element it is being used to cover) Endowmnet Policy

Joint Borrower Sole Proprietor For cases of this nature the applicant(s) who will not appear on the mortgage deed will need independent legal advice prior to any mortgage offer. Shared ownership, Right to Buy and BTL mortgages are not permitted, and all applications must be on a residential basis only. IO in and into retirement is not permitted. Applications will only be considered if those intending to live in the property are named on the mortgage application. • The minimum age is 25 years old for applicants who do not appear in the mortgage deed. • Application will be treated as a joint application therefore all applicants’ income and expenditure will be considered in the affordability assessment. • All borrowers must be relative(s) of the applicant. • Applicants that do not appear on the mortgage deeds are not permitted under the government’s Help to Buy scheme. • Maximum of 90% LTV • Self-Build joint borrowed sole proprietor applications must be referred to an underwriter prior to submission. • Where the mortgage is Interest only – The acceptable repayment strategy must be provided from the applicant residing in the property. IO is not acceptable for terms in and into retirement. • Where the term is in or extends into retirement, the maximum age of any borrower (including those who do not appear on the mortgage deed) is 86yrs at the end of the mortgage term and affordability & LTV will be assessed in line with our lending in and into retirement criteria – refer to that section for more information. • Not available for debt consolidation mortgages. The person(s) residing in the property must have their own source of income. There may be instances where it is appropriate to lend where the person(s) residing in the property do not have their own source of income. This will only be acceptable where there is parental support, and they are able to demonstrate that they will have future earnings to support the mortgage. Cases of this nature are outside criteria and must be referred to underwriting with full rationale for the proposal.

SECTION: JOINT BORROWER SOLE PROPRIETOR
------------------------------------------------------------
For cases of this nature the applicant(s) who will not appear on the mortgage deed will need independent legal advice prior to any mortgage offer. Shared ownership, Right to Buy and BTL mortgages are not permitted, and all applications must be on a residential basis only. IO in and into retirement is not permitted. Applications will only be considered if those intending to live in the property are named on the mortgage application. • The minimum age is 25 years old for applicants who do not appear in the mortgage deed. • Application will be treated as a joint application therefore all applicants’ income and expenditure will be considered in the affordability assessment. • All borrowers must be relative(s) of the applicant. • Applicants that do not appear on the mortgage deeds are not permitted under the government’s Help to Buy scheme. • Maximum of 90% LTV • Self-Build joint borrowed sole proprietor applications must be referred to an underwriter prior to submission. • Where the mortgage is Interest only – The acceptable repayment strategy must be provided from the applicant residing in the property. IO is not acceptable for terms in and into retirement. • Where the term is in or extends into retirement, the maximum age of any borrower (including those who do not appear on the mortgage deed) is 86yrs at the end of the mortgage term and affordability & LTV will be assessed in line with our lending in and into retirement criteria – refer to that section for more information. • Not available for debt consolidation mortgages. The person(s) residing in the property must have their own source of income. There may be instances where it is appropriate to lend where the person(s) residing in the property do not have their own source of income. This will only be acceptable where there is parental support, and they are able to demonstrate that they will have future earnings to support the mortgage. Cases of this nature are outside criteria and must be referred to underwriting with full rationale for the proposal.

Locum/Bank work 2 years’ experience in same industry and 6 months evidence of income required, with average of this period used in affordability assessment

SECTION: LOCUM/BANK WORK
------------------------------------------------------------
2 years’ experience in same industry and 6 months evidence of income required, with average of this period used in affordability assessment

LTI The maximum LTI should not exceed 5x except for: • up to 6x can be agreed under Specialist with no minimum income and max 90% LTV. This is subject to an affordability assessment being carried out evidencing the loan is affordable by having a positive surplus. Anything in excess of this should be referred to underwriting. The following financial commitments should be deducted from basic income before multiplier: • 3% repayment on credit cards and mail orders. • loan and hire purchase repayments. • maintenance payments. • mortgages not to be repaid; and • phone loans. Revolving credit less than £100 does not need to be included as a financial commitment.

SECTION: LTI
------------------------------------------------------------
The maximum LTI should not exceed 5x except for: • up to 6x can be agreed under Specialist with no minimum income and max 90% LTV. This is subject to an affordability assessment being carried out evidencing the loan is affordable by having a positive surplus. Anything in excess of this should be referred to underwriting. The following financial commitments should be deducted from basic income before multiplier: • 3% repayment on credit cards and mail orders. • loan and hire purchase repayments. • maintenance payments. • mortgages not to be repaid; and • phone loans. Revolving credit less than £100 does not need to be included as a financial commitment.

LTVs & Maximum Loan Amounts LTV Band Maximum Loan Amount 90.01% to 95.00% £400,000 80.01% to 90.00% £500,000 Equal to or below 80.00% £750,000 Equal to or below 75.00% £1,500,000

SECTION: LTVS & MAXIMUM LOAN AMOUNTS
------------------------------------------------------------
LTV Band Maximum Loan Amount 90.01% to 95.00% £400,000 80.01% to 90.00% £500,000 Equal to or below 80.00% £750,000 Equal to or below 75.00% £1,500,000

Maintenance Income The Society will consider income from maintenance providing this is evidenced by: Court order. Solicitor agreement. Government arrangement.

SECTION: MAINTENANCE INCOME
------------------------------------------------------------
The Society will consider income from maintenance providing this is evidenced by: Court order. Solicitor agreement. Government arrangement.

Maternity Pay The Society will consider maternity pay as part of our assessment of income. The applicant must have stated their intention to return to work. The customer and employer must provide written confirmation of the maternity pay plus return to work date and the salary. The application must be affordable throughout the whole maternity period. Consideration should also be given to childcare cost once the maternity period has finished. The society will agree to use the return to work salary providing written confirmation from the employer that the applicant will be returning to work within 3 month of mortgage completion.

SECTION: MATERNITY PAY
------------------------------------------------------------
The Society will consider maternity pay as part of our assessment of income. The applicant must have stated their intention to return to work. The customer and employer must provide written confirmation of the maternity pay plus return to work date and the salary. The application must be affordable throughout the whole maternity period. Consideration should also be given to childcare cost once the maternity period has finished. The society will agree to use the return to work salary providing written confirmation from the employer that the applicant will be returning to work within 3 month of mortgage completion.

Mortgage Term The Maximum Term is 40 years including any term extensions for existing members The Minimum Term is product specific Minimum Term on SVR is 3 years

SECTION: MORTGAGE TERM
------------------------------------------------------------
The Maximum Term is 40 years including any term extensions for existing members The Minimum Term is product specific Minimum Term on SVR is 3 years

New Build The Society will lend on new builds up to 90% LTV on all new build properties. The Society will lend on new builds which are part of the Own New scheme up to 95% LTV (houses only) within a limited distribution range. The Letter of Authority will be required to be submitted with every application on this scheme. Own New Range is available Nationally with the exception of London

SECTION: NEW BUILD
------------------------------------------------------------
The Society will lend on new builds up to 90% LTV on all new build properties. The Society will lend on new builds which are part of the Own New scheme up to 95% LTV (houses only) within a limited distribution range. The Letter of Authority will be required to be submitted with every application on this scheme. Own New Range is available Nationally with the exception of London

Offers Mortgage offers for new build properties are valid for 9 months. Mortgage offers for non-new build properties are valid for 6 months. Underwriter approved Decision in principle (DIP) assessments are valid for 3 months. Underwriter referrals are valid for 3 months.

SECTION: OFFERS
------------------------------------------------------------
Mortgage offers for new build properties are valid for 9 months. Mortgage offers for non-new build properties are valid for 6 months. Underwriter approved Decision in principle (DIP) assessments are valid for 3 months. Underwriter referrals are valid for 3 months.

Probationary Period The society will accept employment within a probationary period, where there is a track record of a similar position. For any applicant new to role and are unable to provide an acceptable track record of employment, the society will seek an employment reference to confirm the permanency of role where employed less than 6 months, the mortgage will not be offered until an employer’s reference confirms this has been successfully completed and the position is permanent.

SECTION: PROBATIONARY PERIOD
------------------------------------------------------------
The society will accept employment within a probationary period, where there is a track record of a similar position. For any applicant new to role and are unable to provide an acceptable track record of employment, the society will seek an employment reference to confirm the permanency of role where employed less than 6 months, the mortgage will not be offered until an employer’s reference confirms this has been successfully completed and the position is permanent.

Professionals The recently qualified Professional Mortgage is available to the following occupations: Applicants will be able to borrow up to 6x their salary, applicants can be a qualified, practicing and registered: accountant, actuary, barrister, dentist, engineer, medical doctor, optometrist, pharmacist, solicitor, vet, paramedic, nurse, teachers & lecturers, Members of the Armed Forces (Army, RAF, Navy), Firefighters and Police. Joint applications will also be considered too with nonprofessional second applicants able to borrow up to 4.5 x salary (in addition to the 6x salary of the professional applicant). All definitions are subject to individual underwriting assessment, as the definition can vary. All lending needs to be affordable at completion and clarification of their career progression must be provided to support the lending decision. 100% of Overtime and Allowances can be used subject to a 6mth track record and underwriter assessment.

SECTION: PROFESSIONALS
------------------------------------------------------------
The recently qualified Professional Mortgage is available to the following occupations: Applicants will be able to borrow up to 6x their salary, applicants can be a qualified, practicing and registered: accountant, actuary, barrister, dentist, engineer, medical doctor, optometrist, pharmacist, solicitor, vet, paramedic, nurse, teachers & lecturers, Members of the Armed Forces (Army, RAF, Navy), Firefighters and Police. Joint applications will also be considered too with nonprofessional second applicants able to borrow up to 4.5 x salary (in addition to the 6x salary of the professional applicant). All definitions are subject to individual underwriting assessment, as the definition can vary. All lending needs to be affordable at completion and clarification of their career progression must be provided to support the lending decision. 100% of Overtime and Allowances can be used subject to a 6mth track record and underwriter assessment.

Relative of a customer The Society define a Relative of the customer as the following: Blood relative (rationale should detail who the blood relative is). Step-parent. Child. Spouse. Guardian. Partner.

SECTION: RELATIVE OF A CUSTOMER
------------------------------------------------------------
The Society define a Relative of the customer as the following: Blood relative (rationale should detail who the blood relative is). Step-parent. Child. Spouse. Guardian. Partner.

Repayment Types The following repayment methods are acceptable to the Society: Repayment. Interest Only. Part & part.

SECTION: REPAYMENT TYPES
------------------------------------------------------------
The following repayment methods are acceptable to the Society: Repayment. Interest Only. Part & part.

Residency Minimum UK residency: Darlington does not require a minimum time living in the UK for Skilled Worker, Health & Care, Spousal, BNO, or Ancestral visa holders. For visa holders, applicants must hold a valid visa with at least 2 years remaining for 95% LTV (First-Time Buyer) products. For up to 90% LTV, there is no minimum remaining time required on the visa. A satisfactory UK credit record and address history are still required. Currently all applicants from outside of the EU will need to evidence their legal right to remain and a UK correspondence address must be provided. Applications are not accepted from people who are resident in: Netherlands. Italy.

SECTION: RESIDENCY
------------------------------------------------------------
Minimum UK residency: Darlington does not require a minimum time living in the UK for Skilled Worker, Health & Care, Spousal, BNO, or Ancestral visa holders. For visa holders, applicants must hold a valid visa with at least 2 years remaining for 95% LTV (First-Time Buyer) products. For up to 90% LTV, there is no minimum remaining time required on the visa. A satisfactory UK credit record and address history are still required. Currently all applicants from outside of the EU will need to evidence their legal right to remain and a UK correspondence address must be provided. Applications are not accepted from people who are resident in: Netherlands. Italy.

Retirement In Retirement – The society deems ‘in retirement’ to be a mortgage term that starts after the applicant has confirmed they are retired, or if the applicant is already age 70 or above at the time of application. Maximum LTV 70%. Retirement income must be documented and evidenced including 3 months most recent bank statements. Into Retirement – The society deems ‘into retirement’ to be a mortgage term that goes beyond the applicants declared retirement date, or beyond the age of 70 (whichever comes first). Maximum LTV 80% If applicants intend to continue working past 70 this should be referred to UW to assess their ability to maintain level of income, under no circumstances will earned employed income be considered beyond the age of 75. Full consideration should be given to the type of job the applicant does and their ability to realistically continue to work beyond age 70 (i.e. Builder or heavy manual worker). Evidence of both the current income and retirement income is required in order to evaluate affordability for Lending into Retirement applications. The affordability will be based on the lower of the current income or retirement income.

SECTION: RETIREMENT
------------------------------------------------------------
In Retirement – The society deems ‘in retirement’ to be a mortgage term that starts after the applicant has confirmed they are retired, or if the applicant is already age 70 or above at the time of application. Maximum LTV 70%. Retirement income must be documented and evidenced including 3 months most recent bank statements. Into Retirement – The society deems ‘into retirement’ to be a mortgage term that goes beyond the applicants declared retirement date, or beyond the age of 70 (whichever comes first). Maximum LTV 80% If applicants intend to continue working past 70 this should be referred to UW to assess their ability to maintain level of income, under no circumstances will earned employed income be considered beyond the age of 75. Full consideration should be given to the type of job the applicant does and their ability to realistically continue to work beyond age 70 (i.e. Builder or heavy manual worker). Evidence of both the current income and retirement income is required in order to evaluate affordability for Lending into Retirement applications. The affordability will be based on the lower of the current income or retirement income.

Right to Buy The Society will consider applications for people wanting to buy their homes under ‘Right-to-Buy’ legislation. The Society will lend 100% of the total purchase price, LTV will be limited to 80%. Where home improvements are being completed, maximum LTV of 90%. Right to buy paperwork will be required for all applications. Not Available for customers that fall within Extra support credit criteria.

SECTION: RIGHT TO BUY
------------------------------------------------------------
The Society will consider applications for people wanting to buy their homes under ‘Right-to-Buy’ legislation. The Society will lend 100% of the total purchase price, LTV will be limited to 80%. Where home improvements are being completed, maximum LTV of 90%. Right to buy paperwork will be required for all applications. Not Available for customers that fall within Extra support credit criteria.

Second Residential The Society will accept applications for Second residential properties and will be considered on the following criteria. Minimum income £25,000. Application will be based on earned income and must cover full affordability for both households (including Mortgage and expenditure). Maximum 70% LTV. Property must not be let. Available on Repayment and Interest only.

SECTION: SECOND RESIDENTIAL
------------------------------------------------------------
The Society will accept applications for Second residential properties and will be considered on the following criteria. Minimum income £25,000. Application will be based on earned income and must cover full affordability for both households (including Mortgage and expenditure). Maximum 70% LTV. Property must not be let. Available on Repayment and Interest only.

Self Employed DBS regard customers with a shareholding of 25% or more in a business as self-employed. The business must have been in operation for 2 years, the customer must have held their 25%+ shareholding in the business for 2 years and been profitable in each of the 2 years – anything outside of this must be referred to an underwriter. DBS will accept 100% of the income for self-employed customers using an average of the last 2 years net profit which is evidenced by: Accounts (management accounts are not acceptable). Accountant Certificate 2 years’ worth of SA302’s and the tax year overview or 2 years tax calculations and the corresponding tax year overviews Where the net profit is decreasing DBS uses the lower figure provided the business is on track to make the same or increased profits in the net financial year (projection to be confirmed by the accountant). Sole Trader/ partnership: If net profits are increasing – Average share of net profits over past 2 years If net profits have decreased – The most recent year must be used. Limited Company Where the customer has 25% or more shareholding (if less the customer is treated as employed). In a limited company situation the customer is usually paid a salary, often referred to as Directors Remuneration. This can be taken into account as income and added to the customer’s share of the profits after corporation tax. If net profits are increasing – Average of the share of profits after corporation tax plus the individual Directors Remuneration over the past 2 years. If net profits are decreasing – The most recent years share of profits after corporation tax plus the individual director’s remuneration for that year. Projections only to be used at the request of Underwriter and must be in the form of an accountants reference.

SECTION: SELF EMPLOYED
------------------------------------------------------------
DBS regard customers with a shareholding of 25% or more in a business as self-employed. The business must have been in operation for 2 years, the customer must have held their 25%+ shareholding in the business for 2 years and been profitable in each of the 2 years – anything outside of this must be referred to an underwriter. DBS will accept 100% of the income for self-employed customers using an average of the last 2 years net profit which is evidenced by: Accounts (management accounts are not acceptable). Accountant Certificate 2 years’ worth of SA302’s and the tax year overview or 2 years tax calculations and the corresponding tax year overviews Where the net profit is decreasing DBS uses the lower figure provided the business is on track to make the same or increased profits in the net financial year (projection to be confirmed by the accountant). Sole Trader/ partnership: If net profits are increasing – Average share of net profits over past 2 years If net profits have decreased – The most recent year must be used. Limited Company Where the customer has 25% or more shareholding (if less the customer is treated as employed). In a limited company situation the customer is usually paid a salary, often referred to as Directors Remuneration. This can be taken into account as income and added to the customer’s share of the profits after corporation tax. If net profits are increasing – Average of the share of profits after corporation tax plus the individual Directors Remuneration over the past 2 years. If net profits are decreasing – The most recent years share of profits after corporation tax plus the individual director’s remuneration for that year. Projections only to be used at the request of Underwriter and must be in the form of an accountants reference.

Shared Ownership Shared ownership allows a buyer to purchase a share of a property whilst a registered provider (Housing Association) retains ownership of the remaining share. Must meet government eligibility guidelines. The Society will accept mortgage applications under Shared Ownership, subject to the following criteria: • Up to 95% loan to share. No fees can be added for 95% loan to share applications. • Standard credit history criteria only. • Maximum of 2 applicants. • All mortgages must be on capital and repayment basis. • Minimum property value of £100,000. • Maximum loan of £400,000. • Minimum 5% deposit (excluding builders gifted deposits). • Minimum loan amount of £22,000. • Must be purchasing a minimum of 25% share of the property • The lease for the property must be in the form of the Homes and Communities Agency’s 2015 model (or later) and must contain the mortgage protection clause. • The landlord must be an approved registered provider of social housing (RSL). • The monthly rental payment for the remaining share must be included in the affordability calculation as a financial commitment. The following areas of policy are excluded from Shared Ownership scheme: • Additional borrowing is not permitted except for formal staircasing only. • Not available for BTL mortgages. • Not available for properties in Scotland. • Not available for Help to Buy schemes. • Not available for second residential properties. • Not available for joint borrower sole proprietor. • Not available for Right to Buy. • Not available for self-build properties. • Investment income not an acceptable form of income. • Not available for debt consolidation. • Not available for discounted purchases. • Not available for interest only mortgages.

SECTION: SHARED OWNERSHIP
------------------------------------------------------------
Shared ownership allows a buyer to purchase a share of a property whilst a registered provider (Housing Association) retains ownership of the remaining share. Must meet government eligibility guidelines. The Society will accept mortgage applications under Shared Ownership, subject to the following criteria: • Up to 95% loan to share. No fees can be added for 95% loan to share applications. • Standard credit history criteria only. • Maximum of 2 applicants. • All mortgages must be on capital and repayment basis. • Minimum property value of £100,000. • Maximum loan of £400,000. • Minimum 5% deposit (excluding builders gifted deposits). • Minimum loan amount of £22,000. • Must be purchasing a minimum of 25% share of the property • The lease for the property must be in the form of the Homes and Communities Agency’s 2015 model (or later) and must contain the mortgage protection clause. • The landlord must be an approved registered provider of social housing (RSL). • The monthly rental payment for the remaining share must be included in the affordability calculation as a financial commitment. The following areas of policy are excluded from Shared Ownership scheme: • Additional borrowing is not permitted except for formal staircasing only. • Not available for BTL mortgages. • Not available for properties in Scotland. • Not available for Help to Buy schemes. • Not available for second residential properties. • Not available for joint borrower sole proprietor. • Not available for Right to Buy. • Not available for self-build properties. • Investment income not an acceptable form of income. • Not available for debt consolidation. • Not available for discounted purchases. • Not available for interest only mortgages.

Sitting Tenant DBS will not accept applications where there is a sitting tenant on completion due to the legal challenges this can present. It should be noted that where a customer is remortgaging their BTL property where there is a tenant in place, this is not a sitting tenant as there is no change in ownership.

SECTION: SITTING TENANT
------------------------------------------------------------
DBS will not accept applications where there is a sitting tenant on completion due to the legal challenges this can present. It should be noted that where a customer is remortgaging their BTL property where there is a tenant in place, this is not a sitting tenant as there is no change in ownership.

Specialist The Society’s considers the following as Specialist: LTI over 5 x – no minimum income and max LTV 90% subject to affordability assessment evidencing the loan is affordable with positive surplus Skilled Worker Visa – max LTV 95% – refer to Visa section for more details Interest Only in/into retirement – max LTV 70% Shared Ownership – max LTV 80% Discounted Market Value Purchases and properties with S106, Agricultural ties and/or over 10 acres – max LTV 80%

SECTION: SPECIALIST
------------------------------------------------------------
The Society’s considers the following as Specialist: LTI over 5 x – no minimum income and max LTV 90% subject to affordability assessment evidencing the loan is affordable with positive surplus Skilled Worker Visa – max LTV 95% – refer to Visa section for more details Interest Only in/into retirement – max LTV 70% Shared Ownership – max LTV 80% Discounted Market Value Purchases and properties with S106, Agricultural ties and/or over 10 acres – max LTV 80%

Tenure – Common Hold These are acceptable to the Society.

SECTION: TENURE – COMMON HOLD
------------------------------------------------------------
These are acceptable to the Society.

Tenure – Freehold House

SECTION: TENURE – FREEHOLD HOUSE
------------------------------------------------------------
These are acceptable to the Society.

Tenure – Leasehold Flats Minimum unexpired lease should be 85 years, or 125 years if New Build, from the inception of the mortgage.

SECTION: TENURE – LEASEHOLD FLATS
------------------------------------------------------------
Minimum unexpired lease should be 85 years, or 125 years if New Build, from the inception of the mortgage.

Tenure – Leasehold House Minimum unexpired lease should be 85 years, or 250 years if New Build, from the inception of the mortgage.

SECTION: TENURE – LEASEHOLD HOUSE
------------------------------------------------------------
Minimum unexpired lease should be 85 years, or 250 years if New Build, from the inception of the mortgage.

Tenure – Outright or Absolute These are acceptable to the Society.

SECTION: TENURE – OUTRIGHT OR ABSOLUTE
------------------------------------------------------------
These are acceptable to the Society.

Tenure – Shared Ownership Minimum Lease of 99 years.

SECTION: TENURE – SHARED OWNERSHIP
------------------------------------------------------------
Minimum Lease of 99 years.

Tenure – Tyneside Flats These are acceptable to the Society.

SECTION: TENURE – TYNESIDE FLATS
------------------------------------------------------------
These are acceptable to the Society.

Visas Applicants who are living and working in the UK on a Tier 2 Visa are acceptable subject to: – Maximum LTV of 90% – No minimum time remaining on visa – No minimum Income – A maximum LTV of 95% will be applied for those on a skilled worker visa subject to a minimum of 2yrs left to run on the visa, First Time Buyers Only Applicants who are living and working in the UK on a Spousal Visa are acceptable subject to: – Maximum LTV of 90% – No minimum time remaining on visa – Application must be joint with another applicant that is a UK National, has indefinite right to reside in the UK or has a Tier 2 Visa – No minimum Income – A maximum LTV of 95% will be applied for those on Spousal Visa subject to; application must be a joint application with another applicant that has a Tier 2 Visa or is a UK National and must have 2yrs left to run on the visa, First Time Buyers Only Applicants who are living and working in the UK on an Ancestral or BNO Visa are acceptable subject to: – Minimum of 2 years left to run on the Visa. – Maximum of 90% LTV – A maximum LTV of 95% will be applied for those defined as a Professional and application must be a joint application with another applicant that has a Tier 2 Visa or is a UK National. One applicant must have minimum income of at least £60,000 and joint household income must be at least £90,000, First Time Buyers Only.

SECTION: VISAS
------------------------------------------------------------

Tier 2 / Skilled Worker Visa applicants:

Acceptable.

Maximum LTV: 90%.

No minimum time remaining on the visa.

No minimum income requirement.

Spousal Visa applicants:

Acceptable.

Maximum LTV: 90%.

No minimum time remaining on the visa.

No minimum income requirement.

Application must be joint with an applicant who is:

a UK National, or

has indefinite right to reside, or

holds a Tier 2 / Skilled Worker visa.

Ancestral Visa or BNO Visa applicants:

Acceptable.

Minimum of 2 years remaining on the visa at application.

Maximum LTV: 90%.

Warranty List of acceptable warranty providers are listed on the Lenders handbook: https://lendershandbook.ukfinance.org.uk/lenders-handbook/englandandwales/question-list/1913/

SECTION: WARRANTY
------------------------------------------------------------
List of acceptable warranty providers are listed on the Lenders handbook: https://lendershandbook.ukfinance.org.uk/lenders-handbook/englandandwales/question-list/1913/

TABLES AND DATA
================================================================================

============================================================
TABLE 1
============================================================
                                                                                      Standard                                                                                                 
LTV                                                                                   Up to 95%                                                                                                
FTBs                                                                                  Yes                                                                                                      
Max Loan Amount                                                                       Refer to £1m (subject to LTV restrictions)                                                               
Arrangements to Pay                                                                   Arrangements to pay which have been repaid over 6 months prior to application – subject to explanation.  
Missed Payments – Consumer Credit (Excl: Mobile phones, Mail Orders & Utilities)      No more than 1 in the last 12 months.                                                                    
Missed Payment – Loans                                                                None in the last 3 years.                                                                                
Mortgage / Rent Arrears                                                               None in the last 3 years.                                                                                
Satisfied Payday Loans                                                                None in the last 3 years.                                                                                
Satisfied Defaults on Credit Commitments (Satisfied prior to issuing mortgage offer)  Up to £500 registered over 3 years ago and satisfied prior to application.                               
Satisfied CCJ’s                                                                       Up to £500 but none in the last 3 years and satisfied for at least 3 years.                              
Payment/Debt Management Plans (Satisfactory conductor discharge)                      None in the last 3 years and satisfied for at least 3 years.                                             
Satisfied IVA / Bankruptcy / Previous Repossession (Max 70% LTV)                      Satisfied over 6 years ago.                                                                              
============================================================


============================================================
TABLE 2
============================================================
Income Type                                  Max %  Minimum evidence requirements                                                                                                                    
Basic gross – guaranteed                     100    2 months                                                                                                                                         
Overtime                                     100    1 year                                                                                                                                           
Second employment                            100    6 months                                                                                                                                         
Applicant 3 income                           100    2 months                                                                                                                                         
Applicant 4 income                           100    2 months                                                                                                                                         
Bonus – guaranteed                           75     2 years                                                                                                                                          
Bonus – non-guaranteed                       50     2 years                                                                                                                                          
Shift allowance                              100    1 year                                                                                                                                           
Car allowance                                100    1 year                                                                                                                                           
Commission – regular                         75     2 years                                                                                                                                          
Net profit                                   100    2 years                                                                                                                                          
Self-employed income (incl CIS contractors)  100    2 years                                                                                                                                          
Dividend for company Directors               100    2 years                                                                                                                                          
State pension                                100    2 months                                                                                                                                         
Occupation pension                           100    2 months                                                                                                                                         
Private pension                              100    2 months                                                                                                                                         
NHS bank / locum / supply income             100    2 years’ experience in the same industry and 6 months evidence of income required with average of this period used in affordability assessment.  
============================================================


============================================================
TABLE 3
============================================================
Income type                                                     Max %  Minimum evidence requirements                                      
Universal Credit Benefits – guaranteed                          50     3 months *                                                         
Child Benefit                                                   50     3 months                                                           
Working Families Tax Credit                                     50     3 months                                                           
Trust/ investment income (including savings interest/dividend)  50     1 year **                                                          
Rental income – actual                                          75%    2 years and most recent SA302’s/ tax year overviews                
Stipend income                                                  100    6 months and refer to underwriting plus check employment types     
Bursary                                                         100    6 months and refer to underwriting plus check employment types     
Zero-hour contract                                              100    1 year and check employment types                                  
Attendance allowance                                            50     3 months                                                           
Carers allowance                                                50     3 months                                                           
Maintenance                                                     100    See maintenance section                                            
Other income                                                    100    Refer to underwriting                                              
Benefits – not guaranteed for life (eg PIP, DLA)                100    6 months                                                           
SIPP                                                            4      4% of pot value – this will be assessed against the mortgage term  
London/Large City Allowance                                     100    3 months                                                           
============================================================


============================================================
TABLE 4
============================================================
LTV Band                  Maximum Loan Amount  
90.01% to 95.00%          £400,000             
80.01% to 90.00%          £500,000             
Equal to or below 80.00%  £750,000             
Equal to or below 75.00%  £1,500,000           
============================================================


================================================================================
END OF RESIDENTIAL CRITERIA
================================================================================
